as the crisis in the Middle East
escalates there's one country the US
references all the time we do not want
this war to widen but if Iran or its
proxies attack us Personnel
anywhere make no mistake we will defend
our people we will defend our security
swiftly and decisively last weekend
three US soldiers were killed in a drone
attack the location was Northeastern
Jordan the target was US military base
called Tower 22 the group claiming
responsibility is the Islamic resistance
in Iraq but the US is clear on where
blame really lies our teams here are
continuing to do the analysis but we
know that um Iran is behind it and um
certainly as as we've said before here
in this in this briefing room um Iran
continues to arm and equip these groups
to launch these attacks Iran calls these
claims baseless accusations but Iran
does have a network of allies across the
region it has a name for it the axis of
resistance United it says in its
opposition to Israel and the US this
axis includes the group behind the tower
22 attack Iran has taken advantage
frankly of the the current moment of
conflict to do what Iran has been doing
for many many years which is to
disrupt uh to Target the US and partners
in a variety of ways
um mostly through the efforts of its um
proxy militias and since hamas's attack
on October the 7th and Israel's response
to it this disruption has taken many
forms for example houthi rebels in Yemen
have repeatedly attacked shipping in the
Red Sea the US says there have been over
160 attacks by militia on its military
positions in Iraq and Syria but how does
this network of allies work how close is
their relationship with Iran and what is
Iran trying to achieve if we go back to
1979 there was an uprising in Iran
against the monarchy Iran became an
Islamic Republic ever since it sought to
spread its influence in the region in
recent years that's involved support for
the Assad regime in Syria where Iranian
forces have been deployed support for
large militant groups such as Hezbollah
in Lebanon and the houthis in Yemen and
support for smaller groups including in
Iraq we have a whole range of Iraqi Shia
militias um which have been formed in
lots of different ways and have very
different connections with Iran and in
fact the they're in an umbrella movement
that has non- Shia militias included as
well so it's very complicated to
navigate the types of links uh within
that part of the axis of resistance and
Iran support for its Network comes in
several forms first money in 2020 the US
estimated that Iran gave Hezbollah $700
million a year as well as a $100 million
a year to Palestinian groups including
Hamas and it estimates the houthis have
received hundreds of millions of dollars
too Iran doesn't acknowledge this
funding but as well as money Iran is
supplying weapons too recently two US
military personnel died in an operation
to intercept a boat in the Red Sea the
US released this image it says the boat
was transporting iranian-made weapons to
the houthis or there's Hezbollah one
estimate put its Arsenal at 130,000
rockets and missiles it's believed many
of those
come from Iran and if Iran is supplying
money and weapons is it also
coordinating the actions of its allies
after October the 7th the US
acknowledged we have not yet seen
evidence that Iran directed or was
behind this particular attack more
broadly Iran's allies appear to operate
with a significant degree of
Independence but that needs placing in
context Iran does not
necessarily exert daytoday oper
operational control over each and every
one of its proxies but that's that being
said when you provide strategic
Direction when you provide significant
material when you provide significant
training uh you cannot expect you cannot
um avoid uh culpability and given this
level of support from Iran inevitably
many are asking what does it want well
to understand this we again need to look
at Iran's history not least the Iran
Iraq war of the 1980s which began when
Iraq invaded Iran doesn't necessarily
see itself as an aggressive actor it
sees itself as deeply
vulnerable uh in particular uh memories
of the Iran Iraq war um when it was very
vulnerable to Iraqi missiles and many
people died are absolutely key in Iran's
political conception of where it sits in
the region um so its whole policy is
built on never again allowing itself to
be encircled or isolated and to meet
that goal the axis of resistance is
crucial it is not looking for a massive
escalation and a war outright with the
us or Israel what it's interested in
however is maintaining the kind of
equilibrium and violence groups that it
has across the region in a statement
this week Iran's revolutionary guard
said we do not seek war but we are not
afraid of War Iran's motivations and
Ambitions are a fiercely contested
subject but as the US calibrates its
response to the tower 22 attack there's
no debate that the axis of resistance is
crucial to Iran's efforts to position
itself in the region and to challenge
Israel and America